DOCS-409 - Query Assist (preview 1) (#4563)
SumoLogic/sumologic-documentation: docs/search/intellisense.md

---
id: intellisense

> title: Intellisense for Logs Search (Beta)

Author: @manashar4 We'll need to think of a title... something like...

```suggestion
title: Simplified Query Writing for Logs Search (Beta)
```

:::

### 3. Key-value pair support

1. For JSON or structured logs, type a key (e.g., `status`). Select the suggested facet (e.g., `timestamp`) for more precise filtering.
1. Intellisense will suggest keys and values. Select the appropriate one using **Enter**.

### 4. Next-operator prediction

1. Add a filtering clause like `where status="error"` and group results using `group by`.
1. Intellisense will predict and suggest the next operator (e.g., `group by`, `where`). Use **arrow keys** or click to select.

### 5. Revamped log assist UI

1. As you write, the UI will highlight syntax issues. Hover over the underlined errors for suggested fixes.
1. The side panel provides query-building tutorials and examples for additional support.

### 6. Facet determination for JSON logs

1. When querying for JSON-formatted logs, Intellisense will suggest facets like `status` or `timestamp`.
1. Click the facet to refine your query.

By following these steps, you can take full advantage of Intellisense to accelerate query writing and improve search efficiency.

## Leverage Copilot AI

> In a hurry to complete your investigation? Need help writing queries?
> 
> Try [Sumo Logic Copilot](/docs/search/copilot), our AI-powered assistant that lets you enter natural questions in plain English and auto-generate queries - no need to write them manually. It guides you through query building step-by-step with AI-driven suggestions to refine your results. Because all your observability and security source records are in Sumo Logic, Copilot helps discover related datasets.

Author: ```suggestion
Still need help writing queries? Try [Sumo Logic Copilot](/docs/search/copilot), our AI-powered assistant that lets you enter natural questions in plain English and auto-generate queries - no need to write them manually. It guides you through query building step-by-step with AI-driven suggestions to refine your results. Because all your observability and security source records are in Sumo Logic, Copilot helps discover related datasets.
```

> In a hurry to complete your investigation? Need help writing queries?
> 
> Try [Sumo Logic Copilot](/docs/search/copilot), our AI-powered assistant that lets you enter natural questions in plain English and auto-generate queries - no need to write them manually. It guides you through query building step-by-step with AI-driven suggestions to refine your results. Because all your observability and security source records are in Sumo Logic, Copilot helps discover related datasets.

Author: ```suggestion
Still need help writing queries? Try [Sumo Logic Copilot](/docs/search/copilot), our AI-powered assistant that lets you enter natural questions in plain English and auto-generate queries - no need to write them manually. It guides you through query building step-by-step with AI-driven suggestions to refine your results. Because all your observability and security source records are in Sumo Logic, Copilot helps discover related datasets.
```
